Supplementary Table ST1. Representative list of chromatome datasets from whole proteome projects, databases, literature sources and computational predictions about chromatin or nuclear proteins. A short description and the number of proteins is provided for every source. Columns: Source of information; DB, link, data availability; Description of source of information, details of experiment; Number of proteins (machine readable), Year; Reference; Doi; Notes about number of proteins (human readable); Number of processed proteins.									  

Supplementary Table ST2. The evaluation metrics for all localized, nuclear and subnuclear (nucleolus, nuclear envelope, nuclear bodies, nucleoplasm) proteins from UniProt (A) and HPA (B). Metrics include the number of proteins with overlapping annotation, union of annotations, Jaccard similarity coefficient (measuring overlap), False Positives, False Negatives, and performance measures (precision, recall, and F1-score).  

Supplementary Table ST3. Localization terms from UniProt and HPA which were grouped into generalized localization categories:  nuclear categories (nucleus, nucleolus, nuclear envelope, nuclear bodies, nucleoplasm), cytoplasm, endomembrane system and others (in UniProt).	  

Supplementary Table ST4. SimChrom classification terms and details about their protein contents: corresponding GO terms, databases and literature sources, additional filters. Columns: SimChrom term, GO terms used to build the SimChrom DB, Explanation of the selected GO terms to build SimChrom DB, Number of proteins initially extracted from GO without proteins in nested classes (before additional filtration), Databases and literature sources used to add proteins and explanation, Additional filtering applied, Total number of proteins (with proteins in nested classes), Additional notes.  

Supplementary Table ST5. The SimChrom ontology and SimChrom/SimChrom-SL classification of chromatin proteins. The list of SimChrom protein categories is given together with the aspects that they represent, and the lists of proteins belonging to each category given via UniProt IDs. Total number of proteins per category is also given.   

Supplementary Table ST6. The constructed protein localization reference datasets, their definition and the corresponding number of protein entries. Abbreviations: NULOC - nuclear localization, NON_NULOC - non-nuclear localization, CYTLOC - cytoplasmic localization (see definition in Supplementary Table ST3), UL - uniquely localized, CS - consensus (supported by several sources), JT - joint (supported by at least one source), NECF - no evidence code filtering (localization data with any evidence level from the databases was used).   

Supplementary Table ST7. GO enrichment analysis for the set of protein entries from MS-based chromatomes that are absent in NULOC_JT_NECF and SimChrom (n=2232). Only the driver GO terms that were highlighted by g:Profiler were included. Columns: source, term_name, term_id, highlighted, adjusted_p_value, negative_log10_of_adjusted_p_value, term_size, query_size, intersection_size, effective_domain_size, intersections.   

Supplementary Table ST8. GO enrichment analysis of SimChrom-exclusive proteins (absent in NULOC_CS), n=1208. Only the driver GO terms that were highlighted by g:Profiler were included. Columns: source, term_name, term_id, highlighted, adjusted_p_value, negative_log10_of_adjusted_p_value, term_size, query_size, intersection_size, effective_domain_size, intersections, unexpected_for_chromatin.  

Supplementary Table ST9. GO enrichment analysis of NULOC_CS-exclusive proteins (absent in SimChrom), n=1459. Only the driver GO terms that were highlighted by g:Profiler were included. Columns: source, term_name, term_id, highlighted, adjusted_p_value, negative_log10_of_adjusted_p_value, term_size, query_size, intersection_size, effective_domain_size, intersections.   

Supplementary Table ST10. The number and fraction of housekeeping (HK)/ non-housekeeping (non-HK), low-abundant (LA) and high-abundant (HA) proteins in the whole proteome (PaxDB_INT), NULOC_JT, NULOC_CS, SimChrom and MS-based chromatomes and a nucleome.   

Supplementary Table ST11. A list of SimChrom-SL proteins annotated with "RNA processing" category that are uniquely localized in the nucleus (NULOC_CS_UL). Columns: Gene, Entry, Protein names, localization by UniProt, HPA, OpenCell with filtration by evidence codes (see Methods), protein identification in MS-based studies, abundance by PaxDB_PA (ppm).   

Supplementary Table ST12. Abundance data for all histone proteins and non-histone chromatin proteins with abundance values of more than 0.01% of Histone H4. Columns: SimChrom-SL, Gene, Abundance relative to histone H4 (%), Number of nucleosomes per protein, Abundance PaxDb_PA (ppm), Entry, Uniquely localized in nucleus, Details (for Figure 4D).								

Supplementary Table ST13. Comparison of amino acid composition between chromatin and CytoplasmUL proteins. Table includes columns: Feature (fraction of amino acid), Sequence (total, IDR, non-IDR), median fraction for chromatin and cytoplasmic proteins in percent, fold enrichment of median values for SimChrom vs CytoplasmUL, statistically significance according to Mann Uitney test with multiple test correction (TRUE, FALSE), fold enrichment in IDRs vs non-IDRs of SimChrom, Fold enrichment in IDRs vs non-IDRs of Cytoplasm.

Supplementary Table ST14. List of uncharacterized structural domains in chromatin proteins. Columns: Annotated in InterPro (YES/NO), Entry, TED sequence number, ted_range, ted_len, pLDDT, packing_density, norm_rg, consensus_level, num_segments, num_helix_strand_turn, num_helix_strand, num_helix, num_strand, num_turn, TED_link, InterPro_link, SimChrom-SL, ted_id. See also Interactive Table 3 (https://simchrom.intbio.org/#novel_structural_domains).  

Supplementary Table ST15. List of Pfam domain models in chromatin proteins. Columns: Entry, SimChrom-SL, Total number of Pfam domains, Number of distinct Pfam models, pfamA_ids (only unique ids), Domain annotations (according to manual annotation of EMVI-domains, see Methods), Distinct domain annotations (only unique annotations).  

Supplementary Table ST16. Pfam domain models that are present in three or more chromatin/epigenetic regulator proteins. Columns: pfamA_id, pfamA_acc, pfamA_name, domain model functional subgroup, domain model functional group, SimChrom-SL ChromReg (the category which contains a large fraction of proteins with the domain model, where available), number of SimChrom proteins with the domain model, number of ChromReg proteins with the domain model, number of co-occurring Pfam domain models in SimChrom proteins, number of co-occurring Pfam domain models in ChromReg proteins, number of SimChrom proteins (where the Pfam domain models co-occurs with other domain models), number of ChromReg proteins (where the Pfam domain model co-occurs with other domain models).  

Supplementary Table ST17. The conditional probability of EMVI-domains to co-occur in chromatin proteins, grouped by their main functions. The conditional probability of finding a corresponding domain A in a chromatin protein given that another domain B is already present (columns and rows correspond to domains A and B, respectively). 	
